Western perceptions of Asians have long been shaped by orientalist stereotypes. In the 19th century, panic of an Asian rise to power fueled suspicion and racism across the West. Jack London’s “The Yellow Peril” reinforces this fear, constructing Asians as a faceless external threat, establishing oriental stereotypes that dehumanize them. In contrast, Cathy Park Hong confronts these narratives, revealing that the greatest harm of orientalist narratives is not just their psychological tolls and historical persistence, but a deeper tragedy of being internalized by those they target, forcing the orient to see itself and others through the lens of the oriental.
During the Russo-Japanese war, Japan’s victory over Russia intensified the ongoing paranoia of Asians, providing urgency for Jack London’s “The Yellow Peril”, where he expressed fear about Japan’s modernization and Asia’s unification. In this work, London blankets entire Asian populations under the pre-existing 19th-century stereotypes, flattening each group to their own rigid archetypes. He describes the Chinese as a “perfect type of industry”, stating that “Work is breath of his nostrils. It is his solution of existence” (London), neglecting them as non-human, industrial, machine-like beings whose only purpose in life is to work. He similarly remarks that the Japanese are “marvellous imitator[s] truly, but imitating us only in things material. Things spiritual cannot be imitated; they must be felt and lived, woven into the very fabric of life, and here the Japanese fails” (London). By calling them soulless imitators, London portrays the Japanese as uncanny figures— aliens copying humanity without depth nor ethos. Throughout his work, London consistently refers to each race by singular pronouns (him/he/his): “He is only forty-five millions”, “he is an efficient worker”, “He is not interested in his own moral welfare” (London). London treats them not as individuals but as a collective force, a faceless horde that represents an external threat to the West. He abstracts Asians to a point where they become a symbol for the idea of a looming danger. I compare this to Japan’s Godzilla, which embodies the nuclear threat in post-war Japan. Both Godzilla and the Yellow Peril spawned from externalized fear, and are depicted as monolithic, unstoppable forces that cannot be reasoned with. While Godzilla is obviously a monster that is beyond negotiation, London makes a very similar remark, saying that the West is too “balked by the obstacles of incomprehension” to even reason with the “baffling enigma” which is the East (London). When comparing the Japanese to the Chinese, he writes that “Their mental processes are largely the same. He thinks with the same thought-symbols as does the Chinese, and he thinks in the same peculiar grooves” (London), furthering the idea that Asia functions as a singular monstrous entity, rather than a collective group of individuals with diverse cultures and histories. However, while Godzilla is an invention that does no real harm to anyone, serious problems arise with London’s approach. By using Asians as the face for the externalized fear of the East, he has created lasting and dehumanizing consequences in the West, reinforcing long-lasting oriental stereotypes that have shaped Western perceptions of Asians for generations.
	These Oriental stereotypes were initially negative, but as history progressed, many of them were expanded to include all Asians and rebranded as positive. During the Cold war, public narratives praised the Americanness of Asian Americans and their contributions. During the immigration reform, educated and skilled Asian Americans were used as a model minority to prove the glory of capitalism and undermine the African American civil rights movement. 
In “United”, Cathy Park Hong discusses more contemporary stereotypes such as the model minority, yet remnants of older orientalist stereotypes from London’s era still remain. Asians are seen as the “carpenter ants” (Hong 9) of society, expected to work tirelessly without credit, much like how London describes the Chinese. Asians are often seen as competent workers but “don’t have the right ‘face’ for leadership” (Hong 9), lacking the ‘soul’ to be a visionary or to innovate, much like how London describes the Japanese. The lingering effects of London’s erasure of individualism are still present in Hong’s account of the Asian boy giving her a pedicure: “To be competent at this line of service, you have to be so good you are invisible, and this boy was incapable of making himself invisible!” (Hong 12) Here, I believe that Hong’s use of the word ‘invisibility’ does not only mean executing the pedicure so painlessly that his presence was unfelt, it also signifies her expectation for him to blend into the background with the other workers, suppressing his own individualism. Hong is just as shocked by the pain as she is at the boy’s lack of cultural understanding that Asian workers must erase themselves to be valued.
Often throughout her essay, Hong is calling to reclaim Asian Americans from the perspective of the orient, with many passages in the essay urging them to resist: “You need to talk! Or they’ll walk all over you!” (Hong 10). In other passages, her writing reveals the emotional toll of these stereotypes: “My confidence was impoverished from a lifelong diet of conditional love and a society who thinks I’m as interchangeable as lint” (Hong 9). However, Hong’s time in America also means that orientalist perspectives have undeniably shaped her own self-perception, which she reveals in more subtle ways. This internal conflict is evident in her interaction with the pedicurist. Just as London dehumanizes Asians by reducing them to an abstract idea, Hong’s subconscious orientalist thought initially expects the boy to conform to Western-imposed standards for Asian Americans, but as she walks away and recounts her experience in the essay, her tone is regretful. This moment reveals the larger tragedy: when the orient begins to view itself through the lens of the orientalist, real damage is done— not just internally, but externally as well. As Hong reflected earlier, the harm from believing orientalist stereotypes happens internally: “Racial self-hatred is seeing yourself the way the whites see you, which turns you into your own worst enemy” (Hong 9). However, this encounter with the pedicurist also shows that the extent of this damage does not remain within the individual, it perpetuates and lashes out at others too: “He treated me badly because he hated himself. I treated him badly because I hated myself.” (Hong 12). Hong closes the essay grappling with this tension: “My ego is in free fall while my superego is boundless, railing that my existence is not enough, never enough, so I become compulsive in my efforts to do better, be better, blindly following this country’s gospel of self-interest, proving my individual worth by expanding my net worth, until I vanish” (Hong 35). Hong positions her ego and superego as opposing forces. Her ego, which represents the orient within her attempting to reclaim Asian Americans, is in free fall, suggesting a sense of hopelessness. Meanwhile, her superego, typically defined as the self-critical part of someone’s consciousness, is boundless, implying that her consciousness has been overtaken and deeply ingrained with the West’s orientalist narratives. Orientalist stereotypes do not simply exist as external fears from the side of the oriental— they take root within the orient’s mind, changing how they view themselves and others. Hong challenges the typical binary representation between the “orient” and the “orientalist”. Traditionally, these forces are often seen as opposites: West vs East, dominance vs passiveness, masculinity vs femininity. Hong collapses this convention, showing that both forces can exist within the same person. She is simultaneously a victim of these stereotypes as the orient, and subconsciously a believer in them as the orientalist.
